Structures in Java.
Constructors in Java is a special method that is used for initializing objects.
The constructor is called when an object of a class is created.
It can be used to set initial values for object attribute.
Constructors has the same name as of class.
Okay.
Why do we need a constructor?
So consider the result.
Class name box.
Okay.
And we created the first box of it.
Lent seven centimetre break to centimetre hide eight centimetres.
Okay.
And we want to create multiple boxes, but with different dimensions.
So what we can do here, we can create the constructor of the class box and we can initialize the values
of land, brake and height whenever we are creating new object of the class.
Okay, so this this is an example use case of the constructor.
And what are the rules for writing constructors in Java?
So constructors of a class must have the same name as the class name, which I mentioned earlier.
A constructor in Java cannot be abstract.
Final static or synchronized access modifiers can be used in constructor declaration to control its
axes that its which other class can call.
This particular constructor that we can specify so we can use X as modifiers, but we cannot use static
final keyboard, abstract keyword, organized keyword.
Now there are two types of constructors.
First, which exits arguments where you can pass parameters and constructor, which they are not passing
the parameters.
So we will check examples.
But this constructor does not.
Okay.
So first, let's go to no argument constructively.
We are not passing anything.
Okay.
So this is a class geek named Geek and this is the constructor of the class.
There is no access specified.
We have not gotten one human to pass.
Okay.
Then we create the object of this class and it will get printed.
So what we are doing in name, we are creating new object of this class.
It's a default constructor provides the default so that access specified for this will be default value
to the object.
So will be zero and null as we have not passing anything.
In other argument.
Okay.
So now let us run here and check what is the output we are getting.
You will get to know when the constructor will be called and what what values will be there for Newman.
No, see, it is zero and none null for the name.
Zero for the number.
No, because we are not parsing any arguments, they are not initializing anything in the constructor.
But then we create the new object of the class.
The constructed gets going here.
Okay.
This is how the flow of the constructor works.
Now let us see the net of passing parameters to the constructor.
Yeah.
We have a glass wall and we are going to pass.
Name and I.D. for this particular constructor.
Okay.
And we are assigning the values here.
This dot name that means this not needs no variable inside the class will be assigned a value which
is buzz from this particular argument.
And this dot only means that this I.D variable will get the value of it, which is passed as a barometer
from another class.
Okay, so in main method we are creating the object to it and we are passing the values item and one.
Okay.
And this will get assigned here in the class and when we are printing it, we will get the values here.
Let us sit on this one.
See name I.D..
So this is how we can initialize the values in facet as a parameter to the constructor.
Okay.
So this is about constructors.